Teacher: Hello class. Today I'm going to explain the water cycle. Please listen carefully and take notes.
Teacher: The water cycle is the continuous movement of water on, above, and below the surface of the Earth.
Teacher: There are four main stages: evaporation, condensation, precipitation, and collection. Let me explain each one.
Teacher: First, evaporation. This is when the sun heats up water in rivers, lakes, and oceans and turns it into water vapor that rises into the air.
Teacher: The vapor rises higher and gets cooler. When it cools enough, it condenses into tiny water droplets that form clouds. This is condensation.
Teacher: Any questions so far?
Student 1: Why do clouds form at different heights?
Teacher: Good question. It depends on the temperature and humidity at different altitudes. Higher clouds form in colder conditions.
Teacher: Now, when the clouds get heavy with water droplets, the water falls back to Earth as precipitation - rain, snow, sleet, or hail.
Teacher: Finally, collection. The water that falls collects in oceans, rivers, lakes, and groundwater. And then the cycle starts again.
Teacher: I want everyone to copy this diagram into your notebooks. It shows all four stages clearly.
[Students copying]
Teacher: Tomorrow we'll do an experiment to see evaporation and condensation in action.
Teacher: Please read pages 45 to 48 in your textbook for homework. Class dismissed.